---
#layout: post
title: Project Overview
header:
  # video:
  #   id: -PVofD2A9t8
  #   provider: youtube
date: 2023-10-06 03:23 -0500
---

# Projects 

## Unnamed Multiaplyer Game 

We'll codename this shortly the repo is called SMPGame for now.

This overview is a W.I.P and probably should be rewritten as a dedicated overview but for now we're recycling the Overview section from our Open posistions page.  

## Overview

**Project**: The project is highly ambitus which may be overwhelming to some, I personally subscribe to a go big or go home mentality.  The game is FPS, it's just what I know and what holds my interest even if its over-done.  It's the concept I understand the best.  

*Currently implemented:*

- Engine Chosen
- Art-style loosely chosen.
- We are using GIT for VCS, the project structure of our engine lends itself well to being versioned in fact, our basic project with a handful of assets our repo is only ~130MB I've seen some engines take 3x that just to create a project.
- *Note* the repo isn't on a public service yet I maintain an internal repo, that i will push to either Github or Gitlab  i haven't decided yet which one is going to fit best probably Github for better LFS support.

**Our talent**: Well I'm currently the only team member, the less members required to accomplish the project means more revshare. That said, I'm a jack of all trades  
  
  I can do:

- Some 3D modeling
- Some Coding
- Some Level design  
  
I've also been collecting both free and paid 3D assets for years I think i have like 20GB of them at this point.  some may be useful some may need a reskin some might not work for the art style.

*Future work*:

- One of the downsides of the engine is we will somewhat need to roll our own netcode/multiplayer. However there are some existing code examples available for that we are evaluating. and since we can easily drop in almost any C# library without the engine complaining too much the sky is kinda the limit.
- A lot of discussion on the best ways to design the project for example.

  - FPSArms vs FullBody ?? each have their challenges in multiplayer
  - Bullet (Projectile) Physics
    - RayCast is cheap but gets complicated when you need bullet drop
    - Rigidbody Projectiles are more accurate but have to be managed in multiplayer so you don't end up with 100k entities.
  - Repeatable texture skins
    - Weapons
    - Characters

**Theme**: The game theme is very much in flux we should probably get basic functionality working before designing them theme too much.. but the two ideas I've personally tossed around are

- Modern Day Civil War
- AI vs Human war

Length of project: Actual development? not that much I've spent most of the last few years learning game engines and the basic concepts. But I've been brainstorming the project for about 5 years.  as for how long it would take to complete that depends on how many team members we end up with. 